PAUL LEWIS: So in
the last entry,
I think I talked about the
service worker and some
of the offline stuff.
And I actually heard from a
lot of you in the feedback
that that was like--
it was complicated stuff.
And I agree.
It is complicated
stuff and complex,
and it's not that
much fun to write.
It's quite fiddly work.
But there is hope, because
things like the cache
API, hopefully they
can be updated,
these APIs that
I'm having to sort
of work around and kind of work
with to make my stuff work.
Hopefully, in the
long term, we'll
get solutions for those
at the platform level.
And in the interim--
isn't it-- I think it's a good
thing that you can actually
work with these
lower-level primitives
and make the thing
that you want to make.
That's the genius of
the Extensible Web.
Give you the
low-level primitives.
Yeah, there's complexity
there, perhaps, perhaps not.
But if there is, you can
still write that code,
and it's much better
than saying, oh,
we've got this high-level
thing, and if it
doesn't fit for your particular
needs, sorry about that.
That's the old web.
That's the web we used to have.
So anyway, I just
kind of wanted to say
that just to say, partly,
I am reading the comments.
I do love reading
those comments.
And I always say this
at the end of the video,
but today, I'm
starting with that.
I do read them.
I love them.
They're really insightful.
And often, as you'll
also be seeing,
sometimes, people are
like, why did you do that?
Why didn't you do that?
And then the next thing
will be a comment from me
with a link to the GitHub
commit where I'm like,
I changed the code because
that was a better idea.
So you know, teamwork.
That's what this is.
Anyway, so I don't want to say
that I've solved all the major
problems with the app,
because I haven't.
But I did want to spend
a little bit of time
today looking at
some of the smaller
details, the little touches that
I've been putting into the app.
And I just thought I'd pick
out two of those for you today.
And the first one is what
you see on the screen.
Let me show you.
OK.
So here we have the video,
and I'm going to pause it.
Why is that green?
Oh, that's peculiar.
We'll ignore that for now.
But what I wanted to show you
is this down here at the bottom.
You see as I'm dragging along,
we get this little thumbnail,
like that.
Let's release that.
Wow.
I do not know what's
happened to Pete there.
Sorry, Pete, you look
like the Incredible Pete.
That's bizarre.
Goodness knows what's
going on there.
Anyway, but this little
thumbnail, how am I doing this?
I thought this was a
really nice way to visually
sort of orientate yourself.
We've all seen this
on apps and so on.
Oh, we can't leave
it on that thumbnail.
There we-- oh, that's me.
Right.
Well, the way I do it is
I have created an image,
one big image for the video.
So this is part of the
image processing that I do.
When I take the video
in and I'm making
the Web EMS and everything
else, I also ask FFmpeg--
and you can find the command for
it just by searching around--
to say every, I think it's
like every three seconds.
I think I time it to the
segment length, actually.
Because I break my video
into three-second segments.
And if that's sort
of news to you,
then definitely watch the ones
earlier on in the dev diary
where I was talking about DASH
and how you split your video
down into these segments.
All the same, I ask FFmpeg,
at every few seconds,
please, can you output an image
for me, a small thumbnail.
And it is small.
It's only like 144 pixels by--
or is it 256?
Whatever it is, it's tiny.
Anyway, so I get
a bunch of these,
and then I use ImageMagick,
actually, to stack them
all up into one big image.
And again, that's just-- is
one line in the command line.
And you see that it outputs
this video like this, as
like a strip, filmstrip.
In the source code, I
load this image as--
now do I use it--
I think I use it as a div,
a background image on a div.
OK?
So I have a div--
imagine this.
Let me show you this here.
The white box around it
with a little downtick
on it, that's a div.
And inside is another div
that's slightly smaller,
which is the same size as one
of those frames of the video.
And in there, I position
another div, a third div,
which sounds bizarre.
You might be like, well,
why is he doing this?
Why has he got so many
divs all the way down?
Surely, he could just
set background position.
He could just drop this
in as a background image
and then set background
position and all would be fine.
Yes, I could, but actually,
we don't typically
want to do that.
What we would rather do is
we'd rather use a transform.
And I always say this
about performance--
transforms and opacity
are your best friends.
I'm almost tired of
hearing me say it.
But there I go again
doing it once more.
What I do is I drop in that
image as a full-size div,
and I then just
transform it up and down.
So it's like a sliding window.
So you've got this kind
of the container element,
and inside it is this div
that we just sort of slide
up and down with a transform.
And how do we know how
much to transform it by?
Well, that's what
this code is, here.
So the available
height is basically
how tall is that
filmstrip of images,
take away the height of one
of the stills, which is--
it is 81 pixels.
There you go.
Now that's the answer,
I think it's-- yeah,
it's probably 144 by 81, I
think is what it is for each one
of those stills.
Anyway so you take
away-- so you've
got the height of the whole
thing minus one of the frames,
because you don't want it to
be able to go past the end,
and then we figure
out the index.
And the index is basically
take a normalized position,
so if we--
I normalize the time.
So if you're-- it's a
value between 0 and 1,
0 being the start of the
video; 1 being the end.
And I say, well,
you are, say, 0.5
way of the way
through the video,
or where you're scrubbing
is 0.5 on that line.
And what I do is
I then say, well,
times that by the
available height.
That should give
you where you would
need to be in that filmstrip.
And then I round it
to the nearest frame
so that we don't sort
of see half of a frame
or 3/4 of a frame, or
some fraction of a frame.
We want it to be
snapped to whole frames.
And that's what we do,
we just basically find
the, that's why there's
the [? flaw ?] there.
We find this what I
call the index, which
is which one of the
frames should we
be looking at based off that
normalized position between 0
and 1.
And then we do a transform
on that filmstrip
to move it by the
correct amount.
And that's it.
So we've pre-baked
this filmstrip,
and then we drop
it into the page,
and then we just
slide it up and down
depending on how far you've
slid across the time line.
So that's one.
That's one of the things.
Let me show you the
other one, which
I'm quite fond of as well.
It is just a little thing.
Imagine-- I'm just going to
get rid of the Incredible Pete
there and just go back
to a normal image.
I'm going to find out why
that happened after this.
It's classic, isn't it?
It's been working fine, but
I effectively do a demo,
and it all breaks.
Brilliant.
Anyway, here we go.
So what is the other thing?
Yes, it's this.
I remember now.
Imagine you're in the situation
you're thinking, oh look,
there, all this content.
Isn't that amazing?
But imagine you
go offline, and--
that didn't work.
Why did that not work?
There it-- oh, whew.
It did work.
It just took a while for
it to propagate through.
You see now, it's faded out
and disabled all the things
that it thinks we can't click.
So let's bring that back online.
There we go.
And you see that it
picks that up as well.
Imagine then, we go--
and let's go into one of these.
Let's pick this one.
And we'll make that
available offline.
Round it goes.
There we are.
And we could do the same
again, but I've also
added this little
settings area where
we can prefetch popular
content, which was that whole--
we talked about that
in a previous episode,
how one of the
use cases is let's
prefetch the first like 30
seconds or the first minute
of some footage so that
we get a flying start.
But the other setting--
I made that a user5
setting, by the way,
because it will use
bandwidth, and I
want to be respectful
of people's bandwidth.
So I don't just switch
it on for everybody.
I let them decide if
they want to do it.
The other one is show offline
content only, which is the,
I know I'm going
to be on a flight
or on some kind of
underground train, which
seems to be the nature
of my life sometimes.
If I click that
on, you can see it
goes into this downloads only.
And I do it-- again, this
is another little thing.
I'm showing that little marker
in the top right-hand corner
just to remind you you're
in downloads-only mode
so that you don't kind of
go, why is nothing working?
And you'll see when I scroll
down, this one is still lit up.
And then you go
and click into it,
and I could, in theory,
watch the video.
There we are.
[INAUDIBLE] as well.
So let me just talk
about some of that stuff.
And I won't get into
probably all of it,
but it is interesting stuff.
So the part of it is the
offline-y-ness of it.
And then part of it is kind of
detecting the offline-y state.
Which is relatively
easy to do if you've
got navigator.offLine or
online, or whatever it is.
Navigator.onLine, that's
what it is, with a capital
L. Never really fully
understood that one.
Navigator dot on Line!
It's like you're
shouting the "line."
I think Jake made that point,
actually, in one of his talks.
Oh well.
We're obviously
on the same page.
Anyway, right, let's have a
look at a little bit of code.
So the vast majority of this
is actually hidden in app,
and let me find where it is.
It is-- this is the thing where
I want to find-- there we are.
Right,
disable_unavailable_links.
What we do is we look
for all the things
that can be effectively
disabled by going offline.
So that's going to be
like the thumbnails,
in particular, for the videos.
And we look and we just
say, given all those links,
I basically pull out the
href from those links,
and sometimes, for
specific things,
there's an href on the data set.
But what I do is I
ask the offline cache,
do you have this item,
the thing for this path?
And if you do,
then that's great.
If you don't, then
we're going to add
on this disable class,
which will fade it out
and it desaturates the image,
and it does all the stuff
that I just showed
where it kind of goes,
you're not going to
click on this, are you.
So the OfflineCache.has,
let me show you that.
There it is.
So this is an interesting
one from my point of view,
because it's--
the simple version of this
would be to look inside,
and the first
version of it, this
is exactly what it did, if you
imagine that each video has
a URL like ShowName/EpisodeName,
then I can just
look inside the
caches and just say,
do you have that, yes or no.
And if the answer is
yes, then I have it,
and I can just show that link.
Great.
And inside of one of
those caches would be--
let me show you
what it looks like.
Inside here, inside
the cache storage.
There we are cds/showreel.
It's the video of course,
yes, but it's also--
let's make this a bit bigger.
I'll tell you what, I'll
just zoom out a little bit.
There.
It's the poster frames, it's
the URL itself, the video--
the page itself, so
we've got the HTML.
The artwork.
We know that the main
cache will have all the CSS
and icons and everything else.
So between those two
caches, we should
be able to show this
particular page.
So if we've got a cache
with the name cds/showreel,
we're going to enable that link.
But what happens if you were
partway through downloading,
that cache was partly filled
and maybe you got the artwork,
but you didn't get the video,
or you didn't get the--
all the video.
You got just some of this stuff
but not all of this stuff.
I have this
PurgePartialDownloads folder--
I can't even say it.
Take a breather.
PurgePartialDownloads.
There you go.
Nailed it.
PurgePartialDownloads--
I keep saying it--
function, which we use
to kind of go in and go,
does this look full?
Does this look like
it's got everything
that we'd expect it to have?
And I am using the video
as a proxy for that.
So again, this is something
that I might come back to
and might refine a
little bit further.
Because this is
the nature of this.
It's a process.
I'm sharing with
you the process.
I'm not saying I have
all the right answers,
and this is just how
it's going to be.
Very often, as I
said at the start,
I read the comments or
whatever, and people are like,
you should really, have
you thought about that,
and that gives me
other thoughts.
Anyway, this is how
it currently is.
What I do is I go through
and I get all the items
in that particular cache, and
I locate the video chunks,
in particular, on the
assumption that the video is
the likeliest
candidate for being
the last thing into the cache.
So the artwork and
all these things,
they're probably going to
arrive much more quickly
than, say, a 40-megabyte
or a 100-megabyte
or a 200-megabyte video.
So I look at the video in
particular, and I go through
and I look for all the chunks.
So I look through every
item in the cache,
but I look in particular
for the video chunks,
and I look for the
highest-numbered video chunk.
So maybe I say,
get video chunk 30.
And then the thing I do
is I look at a video chunk
and I say, based off
your content length,
I would have expected
to see 50 chunks,
so I know that I'm expecting
50, but I've only got 30.
Therefore, I'm pretty confident
I have a partial download.
And so at that point, if
I find-- there we are--
compare the largest chunk
indexed to what we would expect
to have, if it's not there--
if the expected and the
max index don't match,
then I basically
delete that cache.
And then, and only
then, do I actually
check whether the cache exists.
So before I respond
with, yeah, we've
got a cache for cds/showreel,
I'm going to go in
and say, just get
rid of anything
that was pending or
partial, first and foremost.
Now, where this might get
changed is, in the future,
with something like
background fetch,
when the background
fetch stuff lands,
it's possible that the cache
would be partially filled
because of background
fetch, and I
don't want to purge
it if it's partially
filled by a background fetch.
So I might have to rethink this.
Don't know yet.
We're going to find
out, aren't we.
That's the exciting
part of this.
So there you go.
Just a couple of things like
fading out the unavailable
links when somebody goes
offline, which they can either
control themselves or they
can mark it as show only
offline content, or they
can actually, if they're
in airplane mode or
something like that, it works
in that case too, because you
can get events on the window
object for those
kinds of things.
And having the thumbnail image.
Just little touches that I hope
make it a little bit more fun
for people to use the app.
Definitely have a look
at the source code.
It's on GitHub.
As always, drop
your comments in,
and you can subscribe as well.
And I'll catch you, yep, always
the same, ready, steady, next
time.
Hello, thanks for watching.
If you enjoyed this
video, well, you
may enjoy other videos
that we make, too.
So don't forget
you can subscribe,
and you'll get notified when
we push out a new video.
And there's more videos
over there or down there,
depending on how you're
watching the YouTubes right now.
Definitely click on those.